# API HMCTS Marketplace Template Repository

This is a template repository for HMCTS Marketplace APIs. It defines naming conventions, structure, and validation tooling for OpenAPI specifications.

The repository template and its associated build workflows are designed to support a single API specification per repository.

> 🔗 API definitions should follow the [HMCTS RESTful API Standards](https://hmcts.github.io/restful-api-standards/).

## Naming Convention

> NOTE: Avoid using terms like `common, core, base, utils, helpers, misc, or shared`.
> These names often allow for ambiguous ownership and quickly become black holes where cohesion goes to die.

Repository names follow a pattern from generic to specific:

```
api-{sources-system}-[case-type]-{business-domain}-{name-of-entity}
```
* `sources-system`: 
Some examples are:
  * `cp` - Common Platform
  * `dcs` - Crown Court Digital Case System
    
* `case-type`: optional parameter could be:

  * civil 
  * crime 
  * family 
  * tribunal

HMCTS manages all Civil, Criminal, Family (separate from civil), and Tribunal cases.

* `business-domain`, or also could be known as `product-domain`

The Common Platform (CP) will be:
  * `caseingestion`
  * `casematerial`
  * `caseadmin`
  * `casehearing`
  * `schedulingandlisting`

### Reference Data Repositories

Reference data APIs use the following naming format:

```
api-cp-refdata-{product-domain}-{name-of-entity}
```
It could be argued that `product-domain` should be optional for reference data, placing it under global ownership. But global ownership often means no ownership — and no accountability. Therefore, `product-domain` is **required**.

## Supporting Documents

The [`docs`](./docs) directory includes supporting information for the repository:

- [`API-VERSIONING-STRATEGY.md`](./docs/API-VERSIONING-STRATEGY.md) – How we version APIs using media types and SemVer.
- [`CHAIN_OF_CUSTODY.md`](./docs/CHAIN_OF_CUSTODY.md) – Steps taken to establish a secure software supply chain and audit trail.
- [`DATA-PRODUCTS.md`](./docs/DATA-PRODUCTS.md) – Description of structured data outputs generated by the API.
- [`GITHUB-ACTIONS.md`](./docs/GITHUB-ACTIONS.md) – Overview of GitHub Actions workflows, including secrets and variables.
- [`OPENAPI-FILE-CONVENTIONS.md`](./docs/OPENAPI-FILE-CONVENTIONS.md) – OpenAPI file and content conventions.
- [`OPENAPI-SPEC-VERSIONING.md`](./docs/OPENAPI-SPEC-VERSIONING.md) – Rules for evolving OpenAPI specs.
  
> **Note** the build requires secrets and variables to be available in project settings; see [GitHub Actions: Required Secrets and Variables](./docs/GITHUB-ACTIONS.md)

## Post-Template Manual Steps

### Setup

* Go to settings of the repository -> General -> check "Automatically delete head branches"
* Import the ruleset `.github/rulesets/main.json`  
  To import the ruleset, follow GitHub’s instructions here:  
  👉 [Importing a ruleset](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-rulesets/managing-rulesets-for-a-repository#importing-a-ruleset)
  
Once the ruleset has been successfully imported via GitHub Settings, the new repository no longer requires `.github/rulesets/main.json` so it **should be deleted**:

### Clean Up

After using this template to create your repository, the following files are no longer needed and **should be deleted**:

- `./docs/*`
- `./src/main/resources/openapi/deleteme`

Update the `./README.md` to reflect the context of the new created repository

### Contribute to This Repository

Contributions are welcome! Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) file for guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
